Figure 6 is a cross-section of the ship. In some ways, it is not
that complicated. It is made primarily of an advanced carbon
fiber. The carbon-fiber part is tricky when dealing with deep
cryogens and trying to achieve both liquid and gas impermeability and not have gaps occur due to cracking or pressurization that would make the carbon fiber leaky. Hence,
it is a fairly significant technical challenge to make deeply
cryogenic tanks out of carbon fiber. It is only recently that
carbon-fiber technology has reached the point where we can
do this without having to create a liner on the inside of the
tanks, which would add mass and complexity.
This is particularly tricky for the pressurization of the hot
gases. This is likely to be autogenously pressurized, which means
that we gasify the fuel and the oxygen through heat exchanges
in the engine and use that to pressurize the tanks. So, we gasify
the methane and use that to pressurize the fuel tank, and we
gasify the oxygen and use that to pressurize the oxygen tank.

This is a much simpler system than what we have with Falcon
where we use helium for pressurization and nitrogen for gas
thrusters. In this case, we would autogenously pressurize and
then use gaseous methane and oxygen for the control thrusters.
Hence, you really only need two ingredients for this, as opposed
to four in the case of Falcon 9, or five if you consider the
ignition liquid. In this case, we would use spark ignition.
Figure 7 gives you a sense of vehicles by performance,
current and historic. For expendable mode, the vehicle that we
were proposing would do about 550 tons and about 300 tons
in reusable mode. That compares to the Saturn V max capability of 135 tons.
Figure 8 gives a better sense of things. The dark gray bars
show the performance of the vehicle, the payload to orbit of
the vehicle. What it represents is the size efficiency of the
vehicle. With most rockets, including ours, that are currently
flying, the performance bar is only a small percentage of the
actual size of the rocket.
However, with the interplanetary system, which will initially
be used for Mars, we believe we have improved the design
performance massively. It is the first time a rocket performance
bar will actually exceed the physical size of the rocket.
Figure 9 gives you a more direct comparison. The thrust level
is enormous. We are talking about a lift-off thrust of 13,000
tons, so it will be quite tectonic when it takes off. However, it
does fit on Pad 39A, which NASA has been kind enough to allow
us to use because they oversized the pad in doing Saturn V. As a
result, we can use a much larger vehicle on that same launchpad

In the future, we expect to add additional launch locations,
probably adding one on the south coast of Texas, but this gives
you a sense of the relative capability.
However, these vehicles have very different purposes. This
is really intended to carry huge numbers of people, ultimately
millions of tons of cargo to Mars. Therefore, you really need
something quite large in order to do that