In many ways, the rocket booster is really a scaled-up
version of the Falcon 9 booster (Fig. 11). There are a lot of
similarities, such as the grid fins and clustering a lot of engines
at the base. The big differences are that the primary structure is
an advanced form of carbon fiber as opposed to aluminum
lithium, we use autogenous pressurization, and we get rid of
the helium and the nitrogen.

Each rocket booster uses 42 Raptor engines (Fig. 12). It is a
lot of engines, but with Falcon Heavy, which should launch
early next year, there are 27 engines on the base. Therefore, we
have considerable experience with a large number of engines.
It also gives us redundancy so that if some of the engines fail,
you can still continue the mission and everything will be fine.
However, the main job of the booster is to accelerate the
spaceship to around 8,500 km/h. For those who are less familiar with orbital dynamics, it is all about velocity and not
about height.
In the case of other planets, though, which have a gravity
well that is not as deep, such as Mars, the moons of Jupiter,
conceivably one day maybe even Venus—well, Venus will be a
little trickier—but for most of the solar system, you only need
the spaceship. You do not need the booster if you have a lower
gravity well. Therefore, no booster is needed on the moon or
Mars or any of the moons of Jupiter or Pluto. The booster is
just there for heavy gravity wells.
We have also been able to optimize the propellant needed
for boost back and landing to get it down to about 7% of the
lift-off propellant load. With some optimization, maybe we
can get it down to about 6%.
We are also now getting quite comfortable with the accuracy of the landing. If you have been watching the Falcon 9
landings, you will see that they are getting increasingly closer
to the bull’s eye. In particular, with the addition of maneuvering thrusters, we think we can actually put the booster right
back on the launch stand. Then, those fins at the base are
essentially centering features to take out any minor position
mismatch at the launch site.
So, that is what it looks like at the base. We think we only
need to gimbal or steer the center cluster of engines. There
are seven engines in the center cluster. Those would be the ones that move for steering the rocket, and the other ones
would be fixed in position. We can max out the number of
engines because we do not have to leave any room for
gimbaling or moving the engines. This is all designed so
that you could actually lose multiple engines, even at liftoff or anywhere in flight, and still continue the mission
safely.