Finally, the fourth launch of Falcon 1 worked in 2008
(Fig. 18). We were really down to our last pennies. In fact, I
only thought I had enough money for three launches, and the
first three failed! We were able to scrape together enough to
just make it and do a fourth launch, and, thank goodness—that
fourth launch succeeded in 2008. That was a lot of pain.
The end of 2008 is also when NASA awarded us the first
major operational contract, which was for resupplying cargo
to the space station and bringing cargo back. A couple of years
later, we did the first launch of Falcon 9, version 1, and that
had about a 10-ton-to-orbit capability, which was about 20
times the capability of Falcon 1 (Fig. 18). It was also assigned
to carry our Dragon spacecraft.
It was in 2012 when we delivered and returned cargo
from the space station. In 2013, we started doing vertical
take-off and landing tests for the first time (Fig. 18). Then, in
2014, we were able to have the first orbital booster do a soft
landing in the ocean. The landing was soft, it fell over, and it
exploded. However, for 7 seconds, it was good. We also
improved the capability of the vehicle from 10 tons to about
13 tons to LEO. December 2015, was definitely one of the
best moments of my life: the rocket booster came back and
landed at Cape Canaveral (Fig. 18). That really showed that
we could bring an orbital-class booster back from a very high
velocity, all the way to the launch site, and land it safely with
almost no refurbishment required for reflight. If things go
well, we are hoping to refly one of the landed boosters in a
few months. In 2016, we also demonstrated landing on a ship (Fig. 18),
which is important for both the very high-velocity geosynchronous missions and for the reusability of Falcon 9 because
about roughly a quarter of our missions service the space
station. There are a few other lower-orbit missions, but
probably 60% of our missions are commercial GEO missions.
These high-velocity missions need to land on a ship out at sea.
They do not have enough propellant onboard to boost back to
the launch site.