
Sometimes people wonder, ‘‘Well, what about other places
in the solar system? Why Mars?’’ Our options for becoming a
multi-planetary species within our solar system are limited.
We have, in terms of nearby options, Venus, but Venus is a
high-pressure—super-high-pressure—hot acid bath, so that
would be a tricky one. Venus is not at all like the goddess. So,
it would be really difficult to make things work on Venus.
Then, there is Mercury, but that is way too close to the sun.
We could potentially go onto one of the moons of Jupiter or
Saturn, but those are quite far out, much further from the sun,
and much harder to get to.
It really only leaves us with one option if we want to become
a multi-planetary civilization, and that is Mars. We could
conceivably go to our moon, and I actually have nothing
against going to the moon, but I think it is challenging to
become multi-planetary on the moon because it is much
smaller than a planet. It does not have any atmosphere. It is
not as resource-rich as Mars. It has got a 28-day day, whereas
the Mars day is 24.5 hours. In general, Mars is far better-suited
ultimately to scale up to be a self-sustaining civilization.
To give some comparison between the two planets, they are
remarkably close in many ways (Table 1). In fact, we now
believe that early Mars was a lot like Earth. In effect, if we
could warm Mars up, we would once again have a thick atmosphere and liquid oceans.
Mars is about half as far again from the sun as Earth is, so it
still has decent sunlight. It is a little cold, but we can warm it
up. It has a very helpful atmosphere, which, being primarily
CO2 with some nitrogen and argon and a few other trace elements, means that we can grow plants on Mars just by
compressing the atmosphere.
It would be quite fun to be on Mars because you would have
gravity that is about 37% of that of Earth, so you would be
able to lift heavy things and bound around. Furthermore, the
day is remarkably close to that of Earth. We just need to
change the populations because currently we have seven
billion people on Earth and none on Mars.