Figure 5 describes the overall system (for a full simulation,
see www.spacex.com/mars). The rocket booster and the
spaceship take off and launch the spaceship into orbit. The
rocket booster then comes back quite quickly, within about 20
minutes. So, it can actually launch the tanker version of the
spacecraft, which is essentially the same as the spaceship but
filling up the unpressurized and pressurized cargo areas with
propellant tanks. This also helps lower the development cost,
which obviously will not be small.
Then, the propellant tanker goes up anywhere from three to
five times to fill the tanks of the spaceship in orbit. Once the
tanks are full, the cargo has been transferred, and we reach the
Mars rendezvous timing, which is roughly every 26 months,
that is when the ship would depart.
Over time, there were would be many spaceships. You
would ultimately have upwards of 1,000 or more spaceships
waiting in orbit. Hence, the Mars Colonial fleet would depart
en masse.
It makes sense to load the spaceships into orbit because you
have got 2 years to do so, and then you can make frequent use
of the booster and the tanker to get really heavy reuse out of
those. With the spaceship, you get less reuse because you have
to consider how long it is going to last—maybe 30 years, which
might be perhaps 12–15 flights of the spaceship at most. 

Therefore, you really want to maximize the cargo of the
spaceship and reuse the booster and the tanker as much as
possible. Hence, the ship goes to Mars, gets replenished, and
then returns to Earth.
This ship will be relatively small compared with the Mars
interplanetary ships of the future. However, it needs to fit 100
people or thereabouts in the pressurized section, carry the
luggage and all of the unpressurized cargo to build propellant
plants, and to build everything from iron foundries to pizza
joints to you name it—we need to carry a lot of cargo.
The threshold for a self-sustaining city on Mars or a civilization would be a million people. If you can only go every 2
years and if you have 100 people per ship, that is 10,000 trips.
Therefore, at least 100 people per trip is the right order of
magnitude, and we may end up expanding the crew section
and ultimately taking more like 200 or more people per flight
in order to reduce the cost per person.
However, 10,000 flights is a lot of flights, so ultimately
you would really want in the order of 1,000 ships. It would
take a while to build up to 1,000 ships. How long it would
take to reach that million-person threshold, from the point
at which the first ship goes to Mars would probably be somewhere between 20 and 50 total Mars rendezvous—so it would
take 40–100 years to achieve a fully self-sustaining civilization on Mars