Here’s an outline of the kind of escrow transaction
that’s possible in software. This is not implemented
and I probably won’t have time to implement it soon,
but just to let you know what’s possible.
The basic escrow: The buyer commits a payment to
escrow. The seller receives a transaction with the
money in escrow, but he can’t spend it until the
buyer unlocks it. The buyer can release the payment
at any time after that, which could be never. This
does not allow the buyer to take the money back,
but it does give him the option to burn the money
out of spite by never releasing it. The seller has the
option to release the money back to the buyer.
While this system does not guarantee the parties
against loss, it takes the profit out of cheating.
If the seller doesn’t send the goods, he doesn’t get
paid. The buyer would still be out the money, but at
least the seller has no monetary motivation to stiff
him.
Page 192
The buyer can’t benefit by failing to pay. He can’t get
the escrow money back. He can’t fail to pay due to
lack of funds. The seller can see that the funds are
committed to his key and can’t be sent to anyone
else.
Now, an economist would say that a fraudulent seller
could start negotiating, such as “release the money
and I’ll give you half of it back”, but at that point,
there would be so little trust and so much spite that
negotiation is unlikely. Why on earth would the
fraudster keep his word and send you half if he’s
already breaking his word to steal it? I think for
modest amounts, almost everyone would refuse on
principle alone.

That makes it sound like it might somehow get lost
and the parties can’t get it even if they want to
cooperate.
When you pay for something up front, you can’t get
it back either. Consumers seem comfortable with
that. It’s no worse than that.
Either party always has the option to release it to the
other.

Then you must also be against the common system
of payment up front, where the customer loses.
Payment up front: customer loses, and the thief gets
the money. Simple escrow: customer loses, but the
thief doesn’t get the money either.
Are you guys saying payment up front is better,
because at least the thief gets the money, so at least
someone gets it?
Page 198
Imagine someone stole something from you. You
can’t get it back, but if you could, if it had a kill
switch that could be remote triggered, would you do
it? Would it be a good thing for thieves to know that
everything you own has a kill switch and if they steal
it, it’ll be useless to them, although you still lose it
too? If they give it back, you can re-activate it.
Imagine if gold turned to lead when stolen. If the
thief gives it back, it turns to gold again.
It still seems to me the problem may be one of
presenting it the right way. For one thing, not being
so blunt about “money burning” for the purposes of
game theory discussion. The money is never truly
burned. You have the option to release it at any time
forever.