Another option is to reduce the number of free
transactions allowed per block before transaction
fees are required. Nodes only take so many KB of
free transactions per block before they start
requiring at least 0.01 transaction fee.
The threshold should probably be lower than it
currently is.
I don’t think the threshold should ever be 0. We
should always allow at least some free transactions.

Currently, paying a fee is controlled manually with
thepaytxfee switch. It would be very easy to make
the software automatically check the size of recent
blocks to see if it should pay a fee. We’re so far from
reaching the threshold, we don’t need that yet. It’s a
good idea to see how things go with controlling it
manually first anyway.
It’s not a big deal if we reach the threshold. Free
transactions would just take longer to get into a
block.
Page 265
I did a rough tally of 4000 blocks from around 74000-
78000. This is excluding the block reward
transactions:
There were average 2 transactions per block, 17
transactions per hour, 400 transactions per day.
Average transaction bytes per block was 428 bytes,
or 214 bytes per transaction.
The current threshold is 200KB per block, or about
1000 transactions per block. I think it should be
lowered to 50KB per block. That would still be more
than 100 times the average transactions per block.
The threshold can easily be changed in the future.
We can decide to increase it when the time comes.
It’s a good idea to keep it lower as a circuit breaker
and increase it as needed. If we hit the threshold
now, it would almost certainly be some kind of flood
and not actual use. Keeping the threshold lower
would help limit the amount of wasted disk space in
that event.

I implemented this change in SVN rev 157.
The reason I previously made it so high was to allow
very large transactions without hitting the
transaction fee. The threshold was around 26,000
BTC for transactions made of 50 BTC generated
coins. Even though it was 100 times easier to
generate back then, only a few people ever
encountered the fee at that level. The new threshold
puts it at around 11,000 BTC for sending generated
coins. It would mostly only be reached with
generated bitcoins. If you bought your bitcoins,
they’ll be denominated in larger transactions and
won’t be anywhere near the fee limit, unless you
bought them in several hundred separate
transactions. Even if you do reach the fee level, you
only have to pay it once to bundle your little
transactions together.
