I’ve been working on writing the alert system. Alerts
are broadcast through the network and apply to a
range of version numbers. Alert messages are signed
with a private key that only I have.
Nodes can do two things in response to an alert:
• Put a warning message on the status bar.
• Make the money handling methods of the jsonrpc interface return an error.
Page 249
In cases like the overflow bug or a fork where users
may not be able to trust received payments, the
alert should keep old versions mostly safe until they
upgrade. Manual users should notice the status bar
warning when looking for received payments, and
the json-rpc safe mode stops automated websites
from making any more trades until they’re upgraded.
The json-rpc methods that return errors during an
alert are:

If you’re so paranoid that you’re getting hysterical
over this, then surely you’re paranoid enough that if
a warning message displays on the status bar, you’ll
check the website and forum.
I think if another bug like the overflow bug occurs,
it’s important that automated websites stop trading
until their admins can check out what’s going on and
decide what to do. If you decide it’s a false alarm
Page 250
and want to take your chances, you can use the“-
disablesafemode” switch.

It can’t do arbitrary actions remotely. Maybe some of
you are responding to other posters who suggested
the alert system should do more?
If there is an alert, the following json-rpc methods
return an error:

The remaining 14 methods function as normal.
I believe the safer option should be enabled by
default. If you want your server to keep trading and
ignore an alert saying the money its receiving might
be like the money from the overflowbug, then you
can use the switch and not blame anyone else if you
lose your money.
Worst case if you leave alerts enabled, your site
stops trading until you upgrade or add
thedisablesafemode switch.
Page 251
Getting surprised by some temporary down time
when your node would otherwise be at risk is better
than getting surprised by a thief draining all your
inventory.
Someday when we haven’t found any new bugs for a
long time and it has been thoroughly security
reviewed without finding anything, this can be scaled
back. I’m not arguing that this is the permanent way
of things forever. It’s still beta software.

WRT the alert system, who cares? The most the key
can do is temporarily disable six json-rpc commands
until the site owners either add the disable safe
mode switch or upgrade. All nodes keep running and
generating, the network stays up. If I’m not
available, any script kiddie can figure out how to add
two characters and make a new version that disables
the alert system. It would be a temporary
inconvenience only.

This is what makes me think the people objecting
don’t know what they’re talking about. It can’t “shut
down the complete network”.

My apologies, your post was indeed a question not a
statement.