From the user’s perspective the bitcoin maturation
process can be broken down into 8 stages.
1. The initial network transaction that occurs when
you first click Generate Coins.
2. The time between that initial network transaction
and when the bitcoin entry is ready to appear in the
All Transactions list.
3. The change of the bitcoin entry from outside the
AllTransaction field to inside it.
Page 78
4. The time between when the bitcoin appears in the
All Transfers list and when the Description is ready to
change to Generated (50.00 matures in x more
blocks).
5. The change of the Description to Generated
(50.00 matures in x more blocks).
6. The time between when the Description says
Generated (50.00 matures in x more blocks) to when
it is ready to change to Generated.
7. The change of the Description to Generated.
8. The time after the Description has changed to
Generated.
Which stages require network connectivity,
significant local CPU usage and or significant remote
CPU usage? Do any of these stages have names?

It’s important to have network connectivity while
you’re trying to generate a coin (block) and at the
moment it is successfully generated.
1. During generation (when the status bar says
“Generating” and you’re using CPU to find a proof-ofwork), you must constantly keep in contact with the
network to receive the latest block. If your block
does not link to the latest block, it may not be
accepted.
2. When you successfully generate a block, it is
immediately broadcast to the network. Other nodes
must receive it and link to it for it to be accepted as
the new latest block.
Think of it as a cooperative effort to make a chain.
When you add a link, you must first find the current
end of the chain. If you were to locate the last link,
then go off for an hour and forge your link, come
back and link it to the link that was the end an hour
ago, others may have added several links since then
and they’re not going to want to use your link that
now branches off the middle.
After a block is created, the maturation time of 120
blocks is to make absolutely sure the block is part of
the main chain before it can be spent. Your node isn’t
doing anything with the block during that time, just
Page 80
waiting for other blocks to be added after yours. You
don’t have to be online during that time.