It’s the same situation as gold and gold mining.
The marginal cost of gold mining tends to stay
near the price of gold. Gold mining is a waste,
but that waste is far less than the utility of
having gold available as a medium of exchange.
I think the case will be the same for Bitcoin. The
utility of the exchanges made possible by Bitcoin
will far exceed the cost of electricity used.
Therefore, not having Bitcoin would be the net
waste.

Each node’s influence on the network is
proportional to its CPU power. The only way to
show the network how much CPU power you
have is to actually use it.
If there’s something else each person has a finite
amount of that we could count for one-personone-vote, I can’t think of it. IP addresses . . .
much easier to get lots of them than CPUs.
I suppose it might be possible to measure CPU
power at certain times. For instance, if the CPU
power challenge was only run for an average of 1
minute every 10 minutes. You could still prove
your total power at given times without running
it all the time. I’m not sure how that could be
implemented though. There’s no way for a node
that wasn’t present at the time to know that a
past chain was actually generated in a duty cycle
with 9 minute breaks, not back to back.
Page 208
Proof-of-work has the nice property that it can be
relayed through untrusted middlemen. We don’t
have to worry about a chain of custody of
communication. It doesn’t matter who tells you a
longest chain, the proof-of-work speaks for itself.

The heat from your computer is not wasted if you
need to heat your home. If you’re using electric
heat where you live, then your computer’s heat
isn’t a waste. It’s equal cost if you generate the
heat with your computer.
If you have other cheaper heating than electric,
then the waste is only the difference in cost.
If it’s summer and you’re using A/C, then it’s
twice.
Bitcoin generation should end up where it’s
cheapest. Maybe that will be in cold climates
where there’s electric heat, where it would be
essentially free.